Instructions to run the assignment:
sudo ./run.sh

Answers to quiz questions:
1) Briefly describe two key/qualitative differences between Mininet and the actual 
hardware setup for the buffer sizing experiment.

Unlike an actual hardware setup, Mininet doesn't have a strong notion of virtual time as 
opposed to real time, meaning event timing can vary with system load.

Resource limits since Mininet is run on a single server: emulated networks must share 
a single CPU.

2) In the binary search algorithm, we adjust the buffer size while the flows are running. 
How long will it take for the TCP flows to adjust their windows when the buffer size is 
reduced to half its value?

The first packet of a flow will be dropped a t = 0. Around 1 RTT later, the sender knows
that a packet was dropped because it receives no ack. Each flow halves its cwnd each time
a packet is dropped. In our case this takes approximately 87 ms. 

3) In the experimental setup, we use a modified iperf because it is hard to establish new 
connections after long lived TCP flows have started. Why is it so?

This is because the long lived TCP flows will have already adjusted their cwnd to achieve
full link utilization. At full link utilization the switch output buffers will be full. 
At that point, a new flow will have large queueing delays making it difficult to 
establish a connection due to starvation.

4) Look at the plot of cwnd and buffer occupancy for total number of flows of 2 (i.e. N=1).  
Based on your understanding of TCP and the buffer sizing paper, explain why you need 
buffering at the bottleneck switch.  If there is only one total TCP flow at the bottleneck 
link, what is the minimum amount of buffering required to keep the bottleneck link 100% 
utilized?  Why?

Buffering needed at the bottleneck to make sure that when a link is congested, it is busy 
100% of the time; which is equivalent to making sure its buffer never goes empty. If there
were not enough buffer, packets would simply be dropped when they reach the bottleneck 
link. For on TCP flow the minimum amount of buffering required is equal to bottleneck
link rate times the round trip time. To make sure the buffer never goes empty in this case 
we must make sure that the amount of time it takes for AIMD to adjust its cwnd and then 
resend a packet is equal to the amount of time it takes for the buffer to empty itself.

5) What happens to cwnd and minimum required buffer size as you increase the total number 
of flows? Why?

The cwnd and minimum required buffer size decrease as you increase the total number of 
flows. The cwnd decreases because it is sharing the link with multiple flows, the number 
of unacked packets per flow is lower. The required buffer size decreases due to 
desynchronization of the TCP saw tooths, leading to 
statistical multiplexing as the number of flows increase.

6) Describe potential hurdles when using Mininet to reproduce research results. How can 
this knowledge guide you when choosing a research project for the next programming 
assignment?

Mininet memory and CPU limitations became apparent when running large numbers of flows on 
the medium size instance. Choosing an assignment that doesn't require large scales of flows
or nodes, or require extremely high bandwidth that exceeds that of the ec2 server is 
important.